#FastFourierTransform Application Folder

## Application code
### Description
This application implements a Fast Fourier Transform algorithm to be used on 1D signals. Discrete Fourier Transforms (DFT) have a wide range of applications from signal processing (sound, image) to equation solving. The main goal of this experimentation folder is to evaluate the performance of DFT when using either a common RISC-V architecture or a RISC-V + IMC (C-SRAM) architecture. Performance is also evaluated depending of whether or not a standard compiler (i.e. GCC) or Hybrolang is used for the computation kernel.

### Code base
- `main.hl` : Main source code of the application
- `software_dima.h` : Software implementation of DIMA transfers (to evaluate the overhead of scalar memory accesses)
- csram\_\*.h : Macros to build and generate C-SRAM instructions in C

### Building
The source code of the application is the C/Hybrolang source `main.hl`. It contains four versions, each associated with a Makefile rule (unchecked entries are non-functionnal):
- [ ] `DFT_c_riscv` : Unspecialized (RISC-V scalar) version written in C and compiled with GCC
- [ ] `DFT_c_cxram` : C-SRAM version written in C, using macros generated by PyISAGen and compiled with GCC
- [ ] `DFT_h2_riscv` : RISC-V scalar version written in C & Hybrolang and compiled with GCC
- [ ] `DFT_h2_cxram` : C-SRAM version written in C & Hybrolang and compiled with GCC

### Computing a Discrete Fourier Transform
- `USAGE : ./DFT <Signal_in> <File_out>`
The application takes three file paths `src_img1`, `src_img2` & `dest_img`, and performs the image differencing `src_img1 - src_img2`, to finally store the result in the file `dest_img`.
For now, the ImageDiff application is only compatible with Portable GrayMap (.PGM) images. Other formats (Portable Bitmaps [.PBM] & Portable aNyMap [.PNM]) may be supported in the future.
To obtain .PGM images, you can use ImageMagick on images of your choice. An example below :
- `convert <your_image.jpeg> <your_image.pbm>`

## gen\_stats.py script
### Overview
To automate the performance evaluation of the study cases mentionned in the previous section, the `gen_stats.py` script can be used. It takes no input, automates the simulation runs and computes the performance statistics, before writing them to Statistics.xlsx (Excel 2008) and Statistics.txt files.
### Python requirements :
- `numpy`, `pandas`, `matplotlib`, `tabulate`, `openpyxl` (you can use either the package manager of your distribution or `pip` to install these).
